---
layout: post
title: Release LXQt 0.16.0
slug: lxqt-0-16-0
date: 2020-11-05 22:53:01
promoted: true
categories: release
---

The LXQt team is proud to announce the release of LXQt 0.16.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

The LXQt team is working towards LXQt 1.0.0. [Want to help us?](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/wiki/Contributing-code) Found any bugs? Please file bug reports and pull requests on our [GitHub tracker](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/issues)!

The release can be downloaded at [Github](https://github.com/lxqt).

The LXQt team announces the release of LXQt 0.16.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

# Highlights

## General


 * Translation through Weblate is up and running again.

## LibFM-Qt / PCManFM-Qt


 * Options are added for switching to newly opened tab and opening tabs of last window.
 * File sorting is made more natural by treating dot as separator (like what GTK does — other aspects of file sorting aren't changed because Qt does them best).
 * Several options are added to LXQt file dialog. All options are remembered.
 * DND into Desktop trash and also moving Desktop files into Desktop folders by DND are fixed.
 * An option to allow desktop folders to be opened by the default file manager (which may not be PCManFM-Qt) when thy are left clicked.
 * Other enhancements and fixes.


## LXQt Panel


 * Status Notifier supports customizable auto-hiding.
 * Task buttons can move windows to the next screen.
 * Main menu items have right-click menus for some actions.
 * The sizes and alignments of some plugins are fixed at startup.
 * An option is added for putting ungrouped task buttons of the same application next to each other.


## LXQt Configuration


 * Qt palette customization is added to lxqt-config-appearance.
 * "Default Application" are added to lxqt-config-file-associations for setting the default web browser, file manager and email client.
 * The UI of lxqt-config-brightness is improved.
 * A crash is fixed in lxqt-config-monitor.


## LXQt Configuration

 * Drag and drop of screens is improved and made easier in Monitor Settings.


## LXQt Power Management


 * A Power keys section is added to the config dialog for customizing the actions of power, suspend and hibernation keys.


## QTerminal / QTermWidget


 * Closing of tabs by middle-clicking is made optional.
 * An option is added for opening the new tab to the right of the active tab.
 * The drop-down QTerminal is always put on the screen with the cursor.



## LXImage Qt


 * Images can be resized now.
 * Ambiguous shortcuts are prevented.
 * An action is added for copying file paths.
 * Start the app on the screen with the mouse cursor when opening images.
 * More image types are supported.


## LXQt Archiver


 * Now, bsdtar (belonging to libarchive) is used to open and extract RPM packages correctly.


## libQtXdg


 * QtXdg MimeApps Tool (qtxdg-mat) is enhanced to support setting/getting of the default email client, file manager and web browser.
 * Fixes.


## LXQt Desktop Notifications


 * An option is added for showing notifications on the screen with the mouse pointer.


## PulseAudio Volume Control


 * Random crashes are fixed when connecting to Bluetooth audio devices.


## LXQt Themes


 * Three themes are added: Clearlooks, Leech and Kvantum.


## LXQt Session


 * The Default Applications page is removed because default applications are now handled by the File Associations dialog in a more efficient way.


## Release Notes


 * Please see the release page of each LXQt component for its detailed release note.


### Notes For Packagers

 * Please follow the [build order](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/wiki/How-To-Release-A-New-Version-of-LXQt).

----
