---
layout: post
title: Release LXQt 0.15.0
slug: lxqt-0-15-0
date: 2020-04-24 14:40:45
promoted: true
categories: release
---

The LXQt team is proud to announce the release of LXQt 0.15.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

The LXQt team is working towards LXQt 1.0.0. [Want to help us?](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/wiki/Contributing-code) Found any bugs? Please file bug reports and pull requests on our [GitHub tracker](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/issues)!

The release can be downloaded at [Github](https://github.com/lxqt)

The LXQt team announces the release of LXQt 0.15.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

# Highlights

## LibFM-Qt / PCManFM-Qt

 * Mount passwords can be saved (temporarily or permanently) if gnome-keyring is present.
 * "Single window mode" is supported.
 * Richer file tooltips.
 * Multi-screen wallpaper support .
 * Deletion time is added to Trash.
 * Thumbnails can be toggled on the fly.
 * Better keyboard navigation.
 * Problems with remote folders are fixed.
 * LXQt file dialog has smarter extension handling.
 * Other enhancements and many fixes.

## LXQt Archiver

 * This is a new addition to LXQt: a fully functioning archive manager based on LibFM-Qt and used by PCManFM-Qt by default.

## LXQt Panel

 * A new plugin is added for changing display backlight.
 * Now Desktop Switcher has an option to show only the active desktop.
 * Menu search is made smoother.
 * Panel positioning is corrected with multiple screens.
 * An option is added to Task Manager for moving windows to next/previous virtual desktop with mouse wheel.

## LXQt Configuration

 * Drag and drop of screens is improved and made easier in Monitor Settings.

## LXQt Power Management

 * An option is added for changing the display backlight when the computer is idle.

## QTerminal / QTermWidget

 * The Settings dialog is made compact and scrollable.
 * A fixed custom size is allowed for QTerminal.
 * Switching to tabs by index is made possible.
 * An option for borderless state is added.
 * History can be sent to your editor.
 * QTerminal works fine on macOS.
 * Flickering on font change is fixed.
 * Several other fixes and enhancements.

## LXImage Qt

 * "Open With..." is added to file menu.
 * Keyboard shortcuts can be customized.
 * The maximum number of recent files can be configured.
 * Showing of image outline is supported.
 * Fixes.

## libQtXdg

 * SVG icons are made sharp with scale factors > 1, especially with non-integer factors.

# Release Notes

Please see the release page of each LXQt component for its detailed release note.

### Notes For Packagers

* Please follow the [build order](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/wiki/How-To-Release-A-New-Version-of-LXQt).
* Qt >= 5.10 is now required

----
