---
layout: post
title: Release LXQt 0.17.0
slug: lxqt-0-17-0
date: Apr 16, 2021, 18:33:59
promoted: true
categories: release
---

The LXQt team is proud to announce the release of LXQt 0.17.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

The LXQt team is working towards LXQt 1.0.0. [Want to help us?](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/wiki/Contributing-code) Found any bugs? Please file bug reports and pull requests on our [GitHub tracker](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/issues)!

The release can be downloaded at [Github](https://github.com/lxqt).

The LXQt team announces the release of LXQt 0.17.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

# Highlights

## General


 * LXQt terminates all child processes on exiting the session. This allows non-LXQt apps to save their last settings at the session end and also prevents rare exit crashes in some of them.
 * Creation time is fully supported by the file manager.
 * SVG icon sets are handled more efficiently and independently.
 * LXQt Power Manager has separate idle watchers for AC and battery and also an option to disable them when the active window is fullscreen.
 * LXQt Panel has an option for behaving like a dock, i.e., auto-hiding only on overlapping a window.
 * Translations are completely done through Weblate and are constantly updated for all components.
 * GitHub's [Discussions section for LXQt](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/discussions) is up and running. Asking questions, making suggestions and discussing ideas can be done most efficiently by using "Discussions". Also, the "matrix-telegram-IRC" bridged messenger has become possible.

## LibFM-Qt / PCManFM-Qt

 * The creation time is fully supported.
 * An item is added to Tools menus to activate Admin mode provided by GVFS — for transferring files beyond user permissions but without a root instance. *(NOTE: Admin is broken in GVFS 1.48.0; it will be enabled automatically whenever its bug is fixed by GVFS devs.)*
 * Launchers can be created from Tools menu (and not only on Desktop).
 * Better opening of a mixed selection of files that have different mime types.
 * Natural keyboard navigation on Desktop.
 * File size limits for thumbnail creation are activated.
 * Blurred thumbnails with scale factors > 1 are fixed.
 * The localization of LXQt file dialog is enabled.
 * Various enhancements and fixes.

## LXQt Panel

 * An option is added to auto-hide a panel only when it overlaps a window.
 * A problem is fixed in changing of world clock's time zone with mouse wheel.
 * The grouped task button popup is fixed in a special case.

## QTerminal / QTermWidget

 * "Action after paste" is made clearer and its default is changed to "Scrolling to bottom".
 * Added 5 modes for background images. *NOTE: Since background images are drawn differently, manual reconfiguration may be needed; see `docs/configuration.md` for more details.*
 * Added an option to disable bracketed paste mode.

## LXQt Power Management

 * Idle watchers of AC and battery are separated from each other.
 * An option is added to disable idle watcher when the active window is fullscreen.

## LXImage Qt

 * Fitting images on navigating is made optional.
 * Thumbnail options are added to Preferences dialog.

## LXQt Archiver

 * Disk images can be opened or extracted.
 * Window settings are remembered.
 * The side-pane is made horizontally scrollable.

## libQtXdg

 * SVG icon sets are handled more completely and independently by using Qt's SVG renderer.
 * XTerm is added as a runtime dependency.

## LXQt Desktop Notifications

The notification summary is always handled as plain-text.

## LXQt Session

 * All child processes are terminated at the session end.
 * Openbox configuration is removed for the sake of WM agnosticism.

## Qps

Fixed a crash on showing Qps' window if Qps is started minimized to tray.

# Release Notes

Please see the release page of each LXQt component for its release note.

### Notes For Packagers

 * Please follow the [build order](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/wiki/How-To-Release-A-New-Version-of-LXQt).

----
