---
layout: post
title: Release LXQt 1.0.0
slug: lxqt-1-0-0
date: Nov 6, 2021, 23:33:59
promoted: true
categories: release
---

The LXQt team is very proud to announce the release of LXQt 1.0.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

# Highlights

## General

 * LXQt 1.0.0 depends on Qt 5.15, which is the last LTS version of Qt5.
 * Apart from bug fixes and workarounds, several functionalities are added to LXQt's file manager, like handling of emblems, new options in LXQt file dialog, an option to make desktop items sticky by default, recursive customization of folders, enhancements to smooth scrolling with mouse wheel, etc.
 * LXQt's image viewer has received several fixes and new options.
 * The do-not-disturb mode is added to LXQt Desktop Notifications.
 * LXQt Panel has a new plugin, called "Custom Command", which does what its name says.
 * Saving and loading of Qt palettes are possible in LXQt Appearance Configuration.
 * Idleness checks can be paused from the tray icon of LXQt Power Manager.
 * Names of dragged and dropped files are quoted in QTerminal.
 * Two LXQt themes are added and problems in the existing themes are fixed.
 * As always, translations have received many updates.
 * And other changes that can be found in change logs of LXQt components.

## LibFM-Qt / PCManFM-Qt

 * Emblems can be added/removed in the File Properties dialog.
 * The recursive customization of folders is made possible.
 * An option is added for making desktop items sticky by default.
 * Mount, unmount and eject actions are added to file context menu under `computer:///`.
 * A freeze is avoided on mounting encrypted volumes by using a workaround (for a problem in GLib, Qt or both).
 * Workaround for a bug in `GFileMonitor` regarding file monitoring inside folder symlinks.
 * Prevented closing of the file operation dialog on closing the main window.
 * Ensured a correct selection order with Shift+mouse in icon view.
 * Prevented self-overwriting in file prompt dialog.
 * Fixed Cyrillic case-insensitive regex search.
 * Enhancements and fixes to smooth wheel scrolling. Now, compact and list modes also have it by default (but it can be disabled for them).
 * Added options to LXQt file dialog for showing hidden files and disabling smooth scrolling in list and compact modes. Also, the hidden columns of LXQt file dialog in the list mode are remembered.

## LXQt Panel

 * "Custom Command" plugin is added. It is a flexible plugin that can be used in various ways.
 * Items of Main Menu's search results have context menus and can be dragged and dropped.
 * Better icon handling in Status Notifier.
 * Fixed the keypad navigation in Main Menu.

## QTerminal / QTermWidget

 * Names of dragged and dropped files are quoted.
 * Trim shell strings.
 * Respect the preset splitting on opening new window or double clicking tab-bar.
 * Fixed a crash under (Plasma) Wayland on opening tab and splitting.
 * Added an option for keeping drop-down window open.
 * Added a workaround for wrong menu positions under Wayland.

## LXQt Desktop Notifications

The do-not-disturb mode is added.

## LXQt Power Management

Idleness checks can be paused from the tray icon for 30 minutes to 4 hours.

## LXImage Qt

 * Options are added for hiding/showing main toolbar and/or menubar, using Trash, changing Thumbnail dimensions, and changing the position of thumbnails dock.
 * Fixed bugs in image fitting, flipping and rotation.
 * Fixed wheel scrolling on image with touchpad.
 * Allowed direct image renaming (with shortcut).
 * Remember EXIF dock width.
 * Added command-line option for starting in fullscreen.
 * An option is added for disabling image smoothing on zooming.

## LXQt Configuration

 * "Other Settings" is added to Configuration Center.
 * Saving and loading of Qt palettes are supported by Appearance Configuration.

## libQtXdg

 * Added support for default terminal.
 * Considered Qt's fallback search paths when finding icons (for coders).

## LXQt Global Keys

Filtering is added for finding shortcuts easily.

## LXQt Archiver

Password prompt is shown for archives with encrypted lists.

# Release Notes

Please see the release page of each LXQt component for its release note.

### Notes For Packagers

Please follow the [build order](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/wiki/How-To-Release-A-New-Version-of-LXQt).

----
