---
layout: post
title: Release LXQt 1.2.0
slug: release-1.2-0
date: 2022-11-05 09:50
promoted: true
categories: release
---

The LXQt team announces the release of LXQt 1.2.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

## Highlights

### General

 * Like its predecessor, LXQt 1.2.0 is still based on Qt 5.15, the last LTS version of Qt5.
 * LXQt's file manager has a search history now, with separate lists for name and content searches. Also, file selection is made easier in the detailed list mode (by dragging inside non-name columns), and a problem with Wayland has been fixed.
 * QTerminal has a better command parsing with its `-e` option.
 * An old issue about showing correct icons of newly installed apps is fixed in libQtXdg.
 * A correct position is guaranteed for LXQt Runner with some window managers.
 * Preliminary changes have been made to LXQt Session for use under Wayland.
 * Translations have received many updates.
 * And other changes that can be found in change logs of LXQt components.

### LibFM-Qt / PCManFM-Qt

 * In the detailed list mode, items can be selected by dragging the mouse cursor inside non-name columns.
 * `Ctrl+D` is added to PCManFM-Qt as well as LXQt file dialog for deselecting all items. It is especially useful in the detailed list mode.
 * The search dialog entries are equipped with search history. The maximum number of history items can be set in Preferences → Advanced → Search.
 * The margins of the desktop workspace can be customized. This can be useful especially with panels/docks that do not reserve space but auto-hide on overlapping windows.
 * The result of execution prompt can be remembered with multiple files.
 * Options for locale-awareness and zero-padding have been added to the bulk-renaming dialog.
 * A "Categories" entry and a "What's-This" help have been added to the launcher creating dialog.
 * The position of the drop menu of the folder view is corrected under Wayland.
 * Miscellaneous fixes.

### LXQt Panel

 * Context menu items are added to Quick Launch for reloading desktop entries.
 * Quick Launch icons are fixed when there are multiple config files.
 * The position of the volume popup is fixed under Wayland.

### QTerminal / QTermWidget

 * Bidi rendering is enabled by default.
 * QTermWidget can be used as a Qt Plugin now.
 * Text DND follows the settings for newline trimming and multiline prompt.
 * Command parsing with the `-e` option is fixed.

### LXQt Power Management

The stable state of battery (neither charging nor discharging) is considered.

### LXQt Session

Preliminary changes have been made for use under Wayland.

### LXImage Qt

 * A sorting sub-menu has been added to the View menu.
 * Visual glitches on smoothing scaled images are fixed.

### libQtXdg

 * An old issue about showing correct icons of newly installed apps is fixed.
 * The priorities of `desktop-directories` folders are fixed.

### ScreenGrab

 * The screenshot of window and its decoration is fixed with multi-screen setups.

## Release Notes

Please see the release page of each LXQt component for its release note.
