---
layout: post
title: Release LXQt 1.4.0
slug: release-lxqt-1-4-0
date: 2023-11-05 09:36
promoted: true
categories: release
---


The LXQt team announces the release of LXQt 1.4.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

## Highlights

### General

 * LXQt 1.4.0 is based on Qt 5.15, the last LTS version of Qt5. If everything goes as planned, this is the last Qt5-based release -- we'll do our best to port the next release to Qt6, even if we'll have to delay it.
 * `lxqt-menu-data` is released to replace `lxmenu-data` anywhere needed.
 * In LXQt's file manager and its library, the user can now add the command for the default terminal, the state of split view is considered on restoring tabs of the last window, an SVG icon is added for PCManFM-Qt, password and anonymity settings of the mount dialog are remembered, and several fixes and enhancements are made to the codes.
 * QTerminal supports audible bell as an option. Also, Putty-style mouse button swap is supported, and Falcon color scheme is added.
 * LXQt's image viewer has a minimal support for color spaces now.
 * Old problems in checking/clearing of urgency and window cycling with mouse wheel in task bar of LXQt Panel are fixed, and an option is added to the custom command plugin for showing the output as an image.
 * LXQt Session updates DBus activation environment, to fix problems with apps (like Telegram) which set `DBusActivatable` to `true` in their desktop entries.
 * Translations have received many updates.
 * And other changes that can be found in change logs of LXQt components.

**NOTE**: There are no new releases of `lxqt-build-tools` and `lxqt-themes` because they haven't changed since their last releases. Of course, the former is essential to building LXQt 1.4.0.

### LibFM-Qt / PCManFM-Qt

 * Use `lxqt-menu-data` instead of `lxmenu-data`.
 * Allow users to add terminal commands.
 * Include the state of split view on restoring tabs of the last window.
 * Remember password and anonymity settings of mount dialog.
 * Don't select extensions on creating new template files.
 * Fixed a crash on deleting path-bar.
 * Check if wallpaper cache is up-to-date on reading Desktop settings.
 * Fixed `--wallpaper-mode` command-line option.

### LXQt Panel

 * Use `lxqt-menu-data` instead of `lxmenu-data`.
 * Fixed checking/clearing of urgency in task bar.
 * Fixed window cycling with mouse wheel and focus stealing prevention in task bar.
 * An option is added to the custom command plugin for showing the output as an image.
 * Fixed the initial displayed volume with PulseAudio in volume plugin.

### QTerminal / QTermWidget

 * Handled bell (BEL, '\a') via libcanberra, and added an "Audible bell" option.
 * Supported Putty-style mouse button swap.
 * Falcon colorscheme is added.

### LXQt Session

 * Update the DBus activation environment, to fix problems with apps (like Telegram) which set `DBusActivatable` to `true` in their desktop entries.

### LXImage-Qt

 * Added a minimal support for color spaces.
 * Removed ImageShack upload option (ImageShack requires a paid subscription now).

### Release Notes

Please see the release page of each LXQt component for its release note.
