---
layout: post
title: Release LXQt 2.0.0
slug: release-lxqt-2-0-0
date: 2024-04-15 21:16
promoted: true
categories: release
---


The LXQt team announces the release of LXQt 2.0.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

## Highlights

### General

 * LXQt 2.0.0 is based on Qt ≥ 6.6. For supporting styling and LXQt File Dialog with Qt5-based apps, `libqtxdg-3.12.0`, `lxqt-qtplugin-1.4.1` and `libfm-qt-1.4.0` can be installed alongside their Qt6-based versions in LXQt 2.0.0.
 * PCManFM-Qt's desktop module, LXQt Runner and LXQt Desktop Notifications are completely ready to be used under Wayland compositors which support the "layer shell protocol", like LabWC, Wayfire, kwin_wayland, Hyprland, Sway,…
 * Wayland will be the main target for LXQt 2.1.0, as Qt6 was for LXQt 2.0.0. The components which are *not* ready for Wayland yet include ScreenGrab, LXQt Global Shortcuts, LXQt Panel's task-bar and keyboard indicator (but LXQt Panel can be used under Wayland without those plugins), some input settings, and settings of monitor, power button, and screen locker. However, most Wayland compositors have tools that can be used instead of them, such that an LXQt-Wayland session is already possible for advanced users.
 * LXQt Panel has a new default application menu called Fancy Menu, featuring "Favorites", "All Applications", and an improved search.
 * QTerminal is the only app whose Qt6 port will be released separately -- complications were encountered due to the removal of legacy encodings from Qt6. Until then, its Qt5 version 1.4.0 could be used.

**NOTE for Distros:** For having Qt5 styling and Qt5 file dialog with LXQt 2.0.0, the installable packages of Qt5-based `lxqt-build-tools`, `libqtxdg`, `lxqt-qtplugin` and `libfm-qt` may need to be renamed, such that they can be installed in parallel with their Qt6 versions. Also, the point release of the Qt5-based `lxqt-qtplugin-1.4.1` is needed for a correct Qt5 font setting (see its release note).

### LibFM-Qt / PCManFM-Qt

 * The desktop module is completely ready for Wayland, thanks to `layer-shell-qt6`.
 * The MIME types of LXQt Archiver and Arqiver are updated in LibFM-Qt.
 * Some menu icons are added.

### LXQt Panel

 * Fancy Menu is added as the new default application menu. (The old menu is kept, but it is not the default menu anymore.)
 * Wayland support is added for positioning the panel by using layer shell.
 * Miscellaneous fixes.

### LXQt Runner

 * Full Wayland support is added.

### LXQt Desktop Notifications

 * Full Wayland support is added.

## Release Notes

Please see the release page of each LXQt component for its release note.
