---
layout: post
title: Release LXQt 2.3.0
slug: release-lxqt-2-3-0
date: 2025-11-05 07:30
promoted: true
categories: release
---
The LXQt team announces the release of LXQt 2.3.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

## Highlights

### General

 * The enhancement of Wayland support has been continued, especially in LXQt Panel, whose Desktop Switcher is now enabled for Labwc and niri. It is also equipped with a backend specifically for Wayfire. In addition, the Custom Command plugin is made more flexible, regardless of Wayland and X11.
 * ScreenGrab, which started to work under Wayland compositors supporting "wlr screencopy protocol" in its version 3.0.0, has a better border color for its selection rectangle on X11.
 * `lxqt-qdbus` is added to `lxqt-wayland-session` for making various `qdbus` commands easier to use with all Wayland compositors.
 * "Safely Remove" is added to the side-pane context menu of PCManFM-Qt when possible. Also, an option is added for disabling file tooltips on desktop.

Apart from changes in components, LXQt has a new Wiki with a better search support and nicer look at [lxqt-project.org/wiki](https://lxqt-project.org/wiki/). The old Wiki pages are kept though.

LXQt also got back its old domain [lxqt.org](https://lxqt.org) which now redirects to the actual domain.

### LXQt Panel

Desktop Switcher works with Wayland compositors that support `ext-workspaces-v1` protocol, like Labwc and niri.

A new backend based on IPC is added for Wayfire, such that Wayfire now comes after KWin-Wayland regarding the number of supported panel actions.

Custom Command is made more flexible, by supporting structured output and being updated every time it receives output. Advanced users might find a much wider use case for it and [share their works](https://lxqt-project.org/wiki/LXQt-Panel#custom-command-widget) with others.

Other changes:

 * The initial config file is made available outside LXQt, for preventing an empty panel there.
 * The Show Desktop plugin is activated on drag-and-drop.
 * Backlight can be adjusted by turning the mouse wheel on the button of the backlight plugin.
 * Locale-aware sorting is used in Fancy Menu and Main Menu.
 * Other small enhancements and fixes.

### LXQt (Wayland) Session

The script `lxqt-qdbus` is added as a wrapper for various `qdbus` commands, for making them easier to use on Wayland.

Other changes:

 * Auto-start applications are put in the correct category.
 * Setting of global scale factors is limited to X11 (on Wayland, scaling should be adjusted by the compositor or a tool like kanshi).
 * Miscellaneous updates and improvements.

### LibFM-Qt / PCManFM-Qt

 * "Safely Remove" is added to the side-pane context menu when possible.
 * An option is added for disabling file tooltips on desktop.
 * A crash is fixed on mount failure after closing a tab.
 * A workaround is added for GLib's problem with moving directory over directory.

And other small fixes and enhancements.

### QTerminal and QTermWidget

In addition to some fixes,

 * Emoji flags are now supported.
 * "Toggle Bookmarks" is added to the view context menu.
 * "Do not ask again" is removed from prompt dialog.

### LXQt Power Management

A section is added for turning off monitor on Wayland (supporting KWin, niri and Hyprland).

### LXQt Archiver

 * LZ4 is supported.
 * Handling of wrong passwords is fixed with 7z.
 * The enabled states of delete and view actions are set appropriately.
 * Going back to the root dir is fixed after adding/deleting file.

And some other fixes and enhancements.

## Release Notes

Please see the release page of each LXQt component for its release note.
