---
layout: post
title: Release qterminal 2.2.0
slug: qterminal-2-2-0
date: 2025-04-17 08:02
promoted: true
categories: release
---

The LXQt team announces the release of qterminal 2.2.0.
The release can be downloaded from [Github](https://github.com/lxqt/qterminal/releases).

Main changes:

 * Prompt on closing with a running process.
 * Added option for mouse cursor auto-hiding.
 * Added option for blinking cursor.
 * Added an option for focusing the sub-terminal on mouseover.
 * Cleaner preferences dialog.
 * Change sizeHint of spacer in Preferences → Behavior.
 * Hide/disable some options on Wayland.
 * Put the dropdown window on the active screen under Wayland.
 * Added "scope" to the layer window on Wayland.
 * Made modal dialogs stay in front of dropdown window on Wayland.
 * Put font dialog in front of Preferences dialog on Wayland (and draw a border around it).
 * Make font dialog remain in front of Preferences dialog on certain X11 WMs.
 * Made the dropdown window a tool window under X11.
 * Set the dropdown minimum size to 25%.
 * Better wording for the current terminal section in preferences.
 * Removed app transparency (terminal transparency exist).
 * Changed "File" to "Session" on the menubar.
 * Guarantee that tabs position is between 0 and 3.
 * Removed a wrong style sheet from dropdown mode.
 * Ignore presets (subterminal creation) with `-e` option.
 * Improved desktop files.
 * Fixed shortcuts for switching subterminals with presets.
 * Fixed shortcut setting with a profile.


<br/>
A full list of changes is in the CHANGELOG file.
<br/>
