---
layout: post
title: Release lxqt-panel 2.3.0
slug: lxqt-panel-2-3-0
date: 2025-10-28 15:41
promoted: true
categories: release
---
The LXQt team announces the release of lxqt-panel 2.3.0.
The release can be downloaded from [Github](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt-panel/releases).

Main changes:

 * Added Wayfire backend.
 * Made Desktop Switcher work with Wayland compositors that support ext-workspaces-v1 protocol (like labwc, niri, …).
 * Activate Show Desktop plugin on drag-and-drop.
 * Made the initial config file available outside LXQt.
 * Updated the button of Custom Command every time it receives output.
 * Added support for structured output to Custom Command.
 * Added a 50-ms delay before making desktop switcher urgent.
 * Fixed building with Qt 6.10.
 * Fixed building with C++20.
 * Fix a discrepancy in the default action of mouse wheel in Task Manager plugin.
 * Accept base-names of menu files in Fancy Menu and Main Menu plugins.
 * Used `lxqt-panel-applications.menu` in Fancy Menu by default.
 * Added category separators of menu files to Fancy Menu.
 * Prevented changing backlight on showing the backlight slider.
 * Adjust backlight with mouse wheel on the button of backlight plugin.
 * Silenced some compilation warnings.
 * Cleaned up some ui files.
 * Removed unneeded QOverloads.
 * Used locale-aware sorting in Fancy Menu and Main Menu.
 * Follow better model/view architcture for PanelPluginsModel.
 * Properly handle plugin move by configview.
 * Workaround for a Qt regression that prevented plugin move indicators from being removed.

<br/>
A full list of changes is in the CHANGELOG file.
<br/>
