---
layout: post
title: Release LXQt 2.2.0
slug: release-lxqt-2-2-0
date: 2025-04-15 08:05
promoted: true
categories: release
---

The LXQt team announces the release of LXQt 2.2.0, the Lightweight Qt Desktop Environment.

# Highlights

## General

 * The Wayland support is enhanced in several components, especially with multi-screen setups, where screen names are used instead of screen numbers. This was required because Wayland does not have the concept of "primary screen". It is a backward incompatible change, in the sense that the arrangement of desktop items will be reset on Wayland at first (X11 remains untouched).
 * LXQt Wayland Session is updated to cover the latest stable versions of the supported Wayland compositors.
 * PCManFM-Qt supports custom options for terminals. Also, going up is prevented when Backspace is kept pressed inside the transient filter-bar, bulk renaming can handle string replacement, the "Open With" menu lists the apps that can open multiple files with different MIME types, shortcuts are added for changing the view mode, etc.
 * QTerminal and QTermWidget have received several enhancements, heavy fixes regarding text rendering, and some new features like cursor blinking and mouse cursor auto-hiding.
 * LXQt Power Management supports power profiles, e.g., through `power-profiles-daemon`. The profiles are shown and can be switched in the battery context menu on the panel (in the next version, they will also be available without battery).

### LXQt Session

A second lxqt-session process for the same user is prevented.

Also, among other changes and enhancements,

 * A D-Bus method is added for launching apps under LXQt Session. This is especially useful for defining global shortcuts under Wayland. Please read the related [Wiki section](https://github.com/lxqt/lxqt/wiki/ConfigWaylandSettings#global-shortcuts).
 * When an auto-start entry is disabled, it is disabled only for LXQt, without affecting other DEs.

### QTerminal and QTermWidget

In addition to miscellaneous fixes and enhancements,

 * Fixes are made for issues in text rendering under special circumstances and with special characters.
 * Character combination is supported.
 * If a process is running inside QTerminal, a prompt will be shown on closing it. This replaces the old prompt, which was almost useless.
 * Options are added for mouse cursor auto-hiding and text cursor blinking.
 * An option is added for focusing a sub-terminal on mouseover.
 * The Preferences dialog is made cleaner.
 * App transparency is removed. It was useless and suboptimal when terminal transparency existed.

### LibFM-Qt / PCManFM-Qt

 * Custom options for terminals are supported.
 * Common apps are listed in the "Open With" menu when multiple files with different MIME types are selected.
 * Going up is prevented when Backspace is kept pressed inside the transient filter-bar.
 * Advanced string replacement is possible in bulk renaming.
 * Context menu items are added for opening the containing folder in `search:///`.
 * Ctrl+Shift+NUMBER is added as the shortcut for changing the view mode.
 * Wayland screens are handled by using their names.
 * Drag-and-drop is enhanced on Desktop, such that neighboring items are not displaced as far as possible.

See [libfm-qt](../libfm-qt-2.2-0/) and [pcmanfm-qt](../pcmanfm-qt-2-2-0) for all changes.

### LXQt Panel

 * Wayland screens are handled by using their names, not numbers.
 * An option is added for the text color of Custom Command.
 * PageDown and PageUp are enabled for Fancy Menu.
 * The menu-cache support is removed — no one used it.
 * Annoying debug messages about Status Notifier are silenced (in the log).

See [lxqt-panel](../lxqt-panel-2.2-0/) for all changes.

### LXQt Power Management

 * Power profiles are supported, e.g., through `power-profiles-daemon`.
 * Suspending on closing the lid is chosen by default.

### LXQt Archiver

 * Building is done with 7zip by default.
 * 7z is used for handling RAR archives.
 * Targets of link items are shown.
 * Some menu-bar icons are added.

See [lxqt-archiver](../lxqt-archiver-2.2-0/) for all changes.

### libqtxdg

 * Adapted to changes in private headers of Qt 6.9.

### Release Notes

Please see the release page of each LXQt component for its release note.
