---
layout: post
title: Preview LXQt Release 2.2
slug: preview-release-2-2
date: 2025-03-11 07:56
promoted: true
categories: blog
---

As usual here's a preview of the coming LXQt release 2.2 due in mid April. This will be mostly
a polish-and-bugfix release, but some new features has been added as well.

### QTerminal

* The preferences dialog has been reordered in several panes.
* An "Activate on mouse over" setting has been added for subterminals.
* Cursor blinking has been enabled.
* Possibility to hide the mouse cursor with a timeout.
* Prompt on closing while processes are running is fixed.
* Fixed text rendering for various non standard characters.

<br/>
Issues with app transparency, font dialog on X11 and showing up on taskbar under
some WM have been fixed too.


### lxqt-panel

* Added colored text and tool tip for "Custom Command" widget.
* Applications can be excluded from showing up in "Taskbar" widget.
* Various bug fixes.


### Wayland Session

* Default compositor and screen locker can be set by distribution or system wide.
* Man pages have been added.
* Configuration files have been updated for last version of the compositor.
* `Input Settings` is partially enabled again under Wayland with the elements which are
working. The cursor theme will be applied now also for GTK applications if this is enabled in
"Appearance Settings".

<br/>
Furthermore there are several Wayland related improvements and issues fixed in different modules:
* PcManFm-Qt: Desktop icons arrangement is handled now per screen name so each screen has it's own
order.
* lxqt-runner
  * Added configuring width under Wayland.
  * Fixed screen settings and position for multi monitor setup.
  * Shortcut closes now runner on a second press, identical to X11.
* lxqt-panel: under Wayland each monitor has its own panels which are shown when it is connected.
* Fixed monitor settings for kwin_wayland if one or both screens are scaled.
* lxqt-session:
  * A shortcut handler using dbus has been added to include applications in
lxqt-session when launched by shortcut, so they can be gently closed.
  * Session cannot be launched multiple times anymore for the same user to prevent issues
  with doubling panels and other modules and auto start apps.
  * Error message is shown when using problematic characters in names for auto start applications.
* Notification daemon: Opens on leftmost or topmost monitor when not opening on the screen
with the cursor.
* The Wayland experience of the dropdown QTerminal window has been improved, fixing unusable
positions of the preferences dialog windows and window size on multiple monitor setups.


### Various Fixes and Improvements

* PCManFM-Qt:
  * Improved tab sizes with large texts.
  * Filter bar can be cleaned also with backspace now.
  * Support for custom arguments when opening directory in terminal.
* ScreenGrab:
  * Added setting for notifications.
  * Fixed launching multiple times.
* Notifications: Zero timeout aka closing only explicitly is possible now.
* All man pages have been updated (please read them _only_ after the release).
* Cleanup of the source files, new translations (Georgian) and other housekeeping.

